Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972), best known by his stage 
name Eminem, is an American rapper, record producer, songwriter, and actor. 
In addition to his solo career, Eminem is a member of the group D12, as well 
as one half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil, alongside Royce da 5'9". Eminem 
is the best-selling artist of the 2000s in the United States. Rolling Stone 
magazine ranked him 83rd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. 
The same magazine declared him The King of Hip Hop. Including his work with 
D12 and Bad Meets Evil, Eminem has achieved ten number-one albums on the 
Billboard 200. Eminem has sold more than 155 million albums and singles, making 
him one of the world's best-selling artists of all time. As of June 2014, he 
is the second best-selling male artist of the Nielsen SoundScan era, the 
sixth-best overall selling artist in the United States, and the best-selling 
hip-hop artist, having sold 45,160,000 albums and 31 million digital singles.

After his debut album Infinite (1996), Eminem rose to mainstream popularity in 
1999 with his second album The Slim Shady LP. The Slim Shady LP was a 
commercial success and earned the rapper his first Grammy Award for Best Rap 
Album. His next two releases, The Marshall Mathers LP (2000) and The Eminem 
Show (2002), were worldwide successes, each earning US Diamond certification 
in sales. Both albums also won the Best Rap Album Grammy Award, making Eminem 
the first artist to win such an award for three consecutive LPs. This was 
followed by Encore in 2004, another critical and commercial successful album. 
Eminem went on hiatus after touring in 2005. He released Relapse in 2009 and 
Recovery in 2010, which was named the best-selling album of 2010 worldwide, 
becoming the rapper's second album, after The Eminem Show, to become the 
internationally best-selling album of its year. Eminem won Grammy Awards for 
both Relapse and Recovery. His eighth studio album, The Marshall Mathers 
LP 2, was released in 2013 and won two Grammy Awards, including Best Rap 
Album (expanding his record for the most wins ever in this category), giving 
him a total of 15 Grammys in his career.

Eminem has opened other ventures, including his own record label Shady Records 
with his manager Paul Rosenberg. He also has his own radio channel, Shade 45 
on Sirius XM Radio. In November 2002, Eminem starred in the hip hop drama 
film, 8 Mile. He won the Academy Award for Best Original Song for the film's 
song "Lose Yourself", becoming the first rap artist ever to win the award. He 
has also made cameo appearances in the films The Wash (2001), Funny People 
(2009), The Interview (2014), and the television series Entourage.